feat: add rancher-terraform and import-existing-vm (#610)
harvester/docs: docs/rancher/rancher-terraform.md

---
sidebar_position: 7
sidebar_label: Rancher Terraform
title: "Rancher Terraform"
keywords:
  - Harvester
  - harvester
  - Rancher
  - rancher
  - Terraform
  - terraform
description: Rancher Terraform allows administrators to create and manage RKE2 guest clusters using Terraform.
---

[Rancher Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/rancher/rancher2/) is a terraform provider that allows administrators to create and manage RKE2 guest clusters using Terraform.

## Deploying

### Prerequisites

> - The Kubernetes cluster is built on top of Harvester virtual machines.
> - The Harvester virtual machines that run as guest Kubernetes nodes are in the same namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Kubernetes cluster is built on top of Harvester VMs.
- The Harvester VMs that run as guest Kubernetes nodes are in the same namespace.
```

> ### Deploying Guest Cluster with Rancher Terraform
> 
> 1. Create an API key on Rancher dashboard. Account & API Keys > Create API key > Create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Guest Clusters Using the Rancher Terraform Provider

1. Create an API key. 

    On the Rancher UI, go to **Account & API Keys** > **Create API key** > **Create**.
```

    ![Create API Key](/img/v1.4/rancher/create-api-key.png)
    ![Access & Secret Keys](/img/v1.4/rancher/access-and-secret-keys.png)

> 1. Get the Harvester cluster ID. Virtualization Management > Manage > Related Resources > Mgmt Cluster Name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain the Harvester cluster ID. 

    On the Rancher UI, go to **Virtualization Management** > **Manage** > **Related Resources** > **Mgmt Cluster Name**.
```

    ![Harvester Cluster ID](/img/v1.4/rancher/harvester-cluster-id.png)

> 1. Get kubeconfig for Harvester Cloud Provider and Harvester CSI Driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain the kubeconfig for the Harvester Cloud Provider and the Harvester CSI Driver.

```

                worker_role = true
                quantity = 1
                machine_config {
                    kind = rancher2_machine_config_v2.rke2-machine.kind
                    name = rancher2_machine_config_v2.rke2-machine.name
                }
            }

            machine_selector_config {
                config = yamlencode({
                    cloud-provider-config = file("${path.module}/rke2-demo-kubeconfig")
                    cloud-provider-name = "harvester"
                })
            }

            machine_global_config = <<EOF
            cni: "calico"
            disable-kube-proxy: false
            etcd-expose-metrics: false
            EOF

            upgrade_strategy {
                control_plane_concurrency = "1"
                worker_concurrency = "1"
            }

            etcd {
                snapshot_schedule_cron = "0 */5 * * *"
                snapshot_retention = 5
            }

            chart_values = <<EOF
            harvester-cloud-provider:
            clusterName: rke2-demo
            cloudConfigPath: /var/lib/rancher/rke2/etc/config-files/cloud-provider-config
            EOF
        }
    }
    ```

> 1. Run `terraform init`.
> 1. Run `terraform apply`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `terraform init`.

1. Run `terraform apply`.
```

            cluster_type = "imported"
            kubeconfig_content = data.rancher2_cluster_v2.harv.kube_config
        }
    }

    # Create a new rancher2 machine config v2 using harvester node_driver
    resource "rancher2_machine_config_v2" "rke2-machine" {
        generate_name = "rke2-machine"
        harvester_config {
            vm_namespace = "default"
            cpu_count = "2"
            memory_size = "4"
            disk_info = <<EOF
            {
                "disks": [{
                    "imageName": "default/<vmimage-name>",
                    "size": 15,
                    "bootOrder": 1
                }]
            }
            EOF
            network_info = <<EOF
            {
                "interfaces": [{
                    "networkName": "default/<network-name>"
                }]
            }
            EOF
            ssh_user = "<ssh_user>"
            user_data = <<EOF
            package_update: true
            packages:
            - qemu-guest-agent
            - iptables
            runcmd:
            - - systemctl
                - enable
                - '--now'
                - qemu-guest-agent.service

>             password: test

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this from the example, it's good for debugging purposes but not for production.

Author: Yes, removed it. Thanks.
